Dries' tutorial with some minor updates (#659)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/platform/corda/5.0-dev-preview-2/developing/api/api-persistence.md

    weight: 7000
section_menu: corda-5-dev-preview
---
Corda 5 supports CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations for user-defined types. This is achieved using JPA annotated entities and, to manage DB migrations, Liquibase.

> ## Defining custom tables using Liquibase migrations

Reviewer: There no number steps in this task so sometimes I'm unsure who's doing what, for example, "associated tables, indexes, foreign-keys, etc. must be created." - created by the system or by you, the user? "This is done by embedding Liquibase files into the CorDapp [CPK]" - Am I doing it now as a user?
Maybe it's worth considering adding some steps or active voice or be a bit more specific in some places. Or maybe it's just obious for a dev reading it and I'm not understanding anything ;-)

[CorDapps](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#cordapps) store data in a relational database.

> When a [virtual node](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#virtual-nodes) is created for a CorDapp (as part of a [CPI](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#cordapp-package-installer-cpi)), associated tables, indexes, foreign-keys, etc. must be created.

Author: ```suggestion
When a [virtual node](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#virtual-nodes) is created for a CorDapp (as part of a [CorDapp Package Installer (CPI)](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#cordapp-package-installer-cpi)), associated tables, indexes, foreign-keys, etc. must be created.
```

> When a [virtual node](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#virtual-nodes) is created for a CorDapp (as part of a [CPI](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#cordapp-package-installer-cpi)), associated tables, indexes, foreign-keys, etc. must be created.

Author: ```suggestion
When Corda creates a [virtual node](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#virtual-nodes) for a CorDapp (as part of a [CPI](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#cordapp-package-installer-cpi)), it requires associated tables, indexes, foreign-keys, etc.
```

> This is done by embedding Liquibase files into the CorDapp [CPK](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#cordapp-packages-cpks).

Author: ```suggestion
This is done by embedding Liquibase files into the [CorDapp Package (CPK)](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#cordapp-packages-cpks).
```

> This is done by embedding Liquibase files into the CorDapp [CPK](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#cordapp-packages-cpks).

Author: ```suggestion
To create these, you must embed Liquibase files into the CorDapp [CPK](../../introduction/key-concepts.html#cordapp-packages-cpks).
```

> Liquibase manages DB changes in a “Change Log” which references one or more Change Sets.

Author: ```suggestion
Liquibase manages DB changes in a “Change Log” which references one or more change sets.
```

You must specify the top level `databaseChangeLog` in a resource file in the CPK called `migration/db.changelog-master.xml`.
This file can reference one or more files including `changeSet`.

You should organise these change sets with future changes in mind.
For example, we recommend a single `include` per version of the table.
Once a `changeSet` is deployed, it cannot be changed and any change must be provided as a `changeSet` with a new `id`.

> We suggest adding a version in the id, for example, `<table-name>-v1`.

Reviewer: "in the `id`" or "in the ID"?

> We suggest adding a version in the id, for example, `<table-name>-v1`.

Author: ```suggestion
We suggest adding a version in the `id`, for example, `<table-name>-v1`.
```

> We suggest adding a version in the id, for example, `<table-name>-v1`.

Author: ```suggestion
We suggest adding a version in the `id`, for example, `<table-name>-v1`.
```

    <include file="migration/dogs-migration-v1.0.xml"/>
</databaseChangeLog>
```
The referenced `include` file should also be a resource file in `src/resources/migration` and define the table itself. For example, `src/resources/migration/dogs-migration-v1.0.xml`:
```xml
<?xml version="1.1" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<databaseChangeLog xmlns="http://www.liquibase.org/xml/ns/dbchangelog"
                   xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                   xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.liquibase.org/xml/ns/dbchangelog http://www.liquibase.org/xml/ns/dbchangelog/dbchangelog-4.3.xsd">

    <changeSet author="R3.Corda" id="dogs-migrations-v1.0">
        <createTable tableName="dog">
            <column name="id" type="uuid">
                <constraints nullable="false"/>
            </column>
            <column name="name" type="VARCHAR(255)"/>
            <column name="birthdate" type="DATETIME"/>
            <column name="owner" type="VARCHAR(255)"/>
        </createTable>
        <addPrimaryKey columnNames="id" constraintName="dog_id" tableName="dog"/>
    </changeSet>
</databaseChangeLog>
```
{{< note >}}

> The include file reference is resolved relative to the resources path in the CPK and not relative to the current directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `include` file reference is resolved relative to the resources path in the CPK and not relative to the current directory.
```

> The include file reference is resolved relative to the resources path in the CPK and not relative to the current directory.

Author: ```suggestion
The `include` file reference is resolved relative to the resources path in the CPK and not relative to the current directory.
```

{{< /note >}}

## Running the migrations

To run the migrations:
1. Upload the CPI.

> 2. Create a virtual node using the [Corda 5 REST RPC interface](../../developing/rest-api/rest-api.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create a virtual node using the [Corda 5 REST API](../../developing/rest-api/rest-api.html).
```

  The migrations run when the virtual node is created and logging shows the migrations executing.
  If you have direct database access, you should see the tables being created.

>   If you are using Postgres, make sure to look under the correct schema, since each virtual node creates a new schema, unless an external VNode DB was provided during VNode creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you are using Postgres, make sure to look under the correct schema, since each virtual node creates a new schema, unless an external VNode database was provided during VNode creation.
```

>   If you are using Postgres, make sure to look under the correct schema, since each virtual node creates a new schema, unless an external VNode DB was provided during VNode creation.

Author: ```suggestion
  If you are using Postgres, make sure to look under the correct schema, since each virtual node creates a new schema, unless an external VNode database was provided during VNode creation.
```

## Mapping your new tables to JPA entities

CorDapps should use JPA annotated POJOs for data access objects.
Each class requires `@CordaSerializable` and `@Entity` annotations.
The following is an example that also defines some named JPQL queries:

> ```java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```kotlin
```

I guess we should also provide a JAVA example? Do we have a convention? 
I can add this in a follow-up PR.

    val name: String,    
    @Column(name = "birthdate")    
    val birthdate: Instant,
    @Column(name = "owner")
    val owner: String?
) {
    constructor() : this(id = UUID.randomUUID(), name = "", birthdate = Instant.now(), owner = "")

    override fun equals(other: Any?): Boolean {
        if (this === other) return true
        if (javaClass != other?.javaClass) return false

        other as Dog

        if (id != other.id) return false
        if (name != other.name) return false
        if (birthdate != other.birthdate) return false
        if (owner != other.owner) return false

        return true
    }

    override fun hashCode(): Int {
        var result = id.hashCode()
        result = 31 * result + name.hashCode()
        result = 31 * result + birthdate.hashCode()
        result = 31 * result + owner.hashCode()
        return result
    }
}
```

{{< note >}}
This example specifies the table and column names.
If they are not specified, JPA uses defaults.
{{< /note >}}

## Using the persistence API from a CorDapp flow

1. Define a reference to the persistence service. This should be supplied via the Corda dependency injection system:

>   ```java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ```kotlin
```

  import net.corda.v5.application.flows.CordaInject
  import net.corda.v5.application.flows.RPCStartableFlow
  import net.corda.v5.application.persistence.PersistenceService

  class MyExampleFlow : RPCStartableFlow {
      @CordaInject
      lateinit var persistenceService: PersistenceService

      // your code goes here
  ```

> 2. To create a Dog entity that writes a row to the database:

Reviewer: Not sure what you are doing here: "To create..., use the following code:"?

> 2. To create a Dog entity that writes a row to the database:

Reviewer: You capitalise "Dog" here but you're not consistent in other places. Please change everywhere to either "Dog" or "dog".

> 2. To create a Dog entity that writes a row to the database:

Author: ```suggestion
2. To create a `Dog` entity that writes a row to the database, use the following code:
```

> 2. To create a Dog entity that writes a row to the database:

Author: ```suggestion
2. To create a `Dog` entity that writes a row to the database, use the following code:
```

>   ```java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ```kotlin
```

  val dog = Dog(dogId, "dog", Instant.now(), "none")
  persistenceService.persist(dog)
  ```

  {{< note >}}
  All persistence operations are processed over the message bus.
  {{< /note >}}

> 3. To load a row from the database by ID:

Reviewer: Again, this step reads like an unfinished sentense.

> 3. To load a row from the database by ID:

Author: ```suggestion
3. To load a row from the database by ID, use the following code:
```

> 3. To load a row from the database by ID:

Author: ```suggestion
3. To load a row from the database by ID, use the following code:
```

>   ```java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ```kotlin
```

  val dog = persistenceService.find(Dog::class.java, dogId)
  return if (dog == null) {
      "no dog found"
  } else {
      "found dog id='${dog.id}' name='${dog.name}"
  }
  ```

>   Alternatively, to load all entities and create Dog instances for every record in the Dog table in the database:

Reviewer: Please finish the step with a clear command.

>   Alternatively, to load all entities and create Dog instances for every record in the Dog table in the database:

Author: ```suggestion
  Alternatively, to load all entities and create `Dog` instances for every record in the Dog table in the database, use the following code:
```

>   Alternatively, to load all entities and create Dog instances for every record in the Dog table in the database:

Author: ```suggestion
  Alternatively, to load all entities and create `Dog` instances for every record in the `Dog` table in the database, use the following code:
```

>   ```java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ```kotlin
```

  val dogs = persistenceService.findAll(Dog::class.java).execute()
  ```

4. To update a record, use the merge operation. For example, to change the name of a dog and set the owner to null:

> ``java

Author: ```suggestion
```java
```

> 4. To update a record, use the merge operation. For example, to change the name of a dog and set the owner to null:

Author: ```suggestion
4. To update a record, use the merge operation. For example, to change the name of a `Dog` and set the owner to null:
```

> ```java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```kotlin
```

val newDogName = input.getValue("name")
persistenceService.merge(Dog(dogId, newDogName, Instant.now(), "none"))
```
All of the operations available are defined in the public interface: PersistenceService
<!-- add link to KDocs -->

{{< note >}}

> Currently, inputs and outputs to `PersistenceService`` must fit in a ~1MB (972,800 bytes) Kafka message. This size limit will be removed in future versions.

Author: ```suggestion
Currently, inputs and outputs to `PersistenceService` must fit in a ~1MB (972,800 bytes) Kafka message. This size limit will be removed in future versions.
```
